# Sample manager and Factory Soundbank

## Sample manager

The sample manager is split into three tabs; Sample pool, File browser
and Recorder.

<img src="/bam/images/sample-manager-soundbank/sample-manager.png" width="300" alt="sample-manager-pool.png" />

At the bottom of the window is a preview player enabling auditioning of
samples. When active, the headphone icon enables auto-play of samples
and engine presets when clicking on the sample or preset name in the
browser. Long pressing a sample/preset name in the browser or pool will
make a "Hot Swap". This will switch the selected track engine by a
sampler with the selected sample, or by the selected preset while long
pressing the name. This could be useful for sound previews in the
context of the current project.

The play button plays the currently selected sample, and the volume of
the preview audio can be controlled with the volume knob on the right.

### Pool

Each BAM project has its own sample pool to store up to 128 imported
samples. Samples can be added to the pool from the file browser by
selecting the ‘add to pool’ button to the right of the file name. When
drag/dropping a sample, it will be automatically added to the pool if
not present. The pool content is linked with the current selected
project. Samples are imported into the first available empty slot in the
pool, and automatically assigned an index number, which corresponds to
the Sampler engine ‘Sample’ parameter.

### Browser

The file browser provides access to all of the Factory sound bank
samples and engine presets, user created presets and recordings, and
file system access to browse local storage. You can add shortcuts for
specific folder locations using the ‘Add folder bookmark’ button. If you
long press a sample or a preset it enters a “Hot Swap” mode where you
can drag samples or presets directly from the browser onto the device
rack, track trigger pads, or tracks in the TIMELINE panel, and it will
load the required engine and FX and also add the sample to the sample
pool.

### Recorder

Here you can record samples from BAM’s master channel output or from any
of your device’s available audio inputs. You can also crop the recorded
sample by adjusting the start and end knobs or interacting with the
waveform area and selecting the crop button. You can use the recorded
sample by drag and drop in a track or on the Engine device.

## Factory Soundbank

BAM´s main library is the Factory Soundbank consisting of samples and
presets.

Presets are divided into two categories:

- **Effects** - Presets for BAM´s FX devices
- **Engines** - Presets for BAM´s Engine devices

### Samples

BAM’s extensive sample library is divided into two folders.

Drums - split into 9 categories with traditional drum kit sounds with
these 5: Cymbal, Hihat, Kick, Snare and Tom, subdivided into Acoustic
and Electronic folders.

- Clap
- Cymbal
- Fx
- Hihat
- Kick
- Perc High
- Perc Low
- Snare
- Tom

Sounds - melodic/tonal samples split into 8 categories:

- Bass
- Brass
- Fx
- Lead
- Pad
- Stringed
- Synth Keys and Organs
- Woodwind
